Q1: Find the titles of all movies directed by Steven Spielberg. 
A1: select title
    from Movie
    where director = "Steven Spielberg";

Q2: Find all years that have a movie that received a rating of 4 or 5, and
    sort them in increasing order.
A2: select distinct year
    from Movie
    where mID in (
        select mID from Rating where stars >= 4) 
    order by year;

Q3: Find the titles of all movies that have no ratings.
A3: select title 
    from Movie
    where mID not in (
        select mID from Rating);

Q4: Some reviewers didn't provide a date with their rating. Find the names of
    all reviewers who have ratings with a NULL value for the date. 
A4: select name from Reviewer
    where rID in (
        select rID from Rating where ratingDate is Null);

Q5: Write a query to return the ratings data in a more readable format:
    reviewer name, movie title, stars, and ratingDate. Also, sort the data, first
    by reviewer name, then by movie title, and lastly by number of stars. 
A5: select name, title, stars, ratingDate
    from Movie natural join (Reviewer natural join Rating)
    order by name, title, stars;

Q6: For all cases where the same reviewer rated the same movie twice and gave
    it a higher rating the second time, return the reviewer's name and the title
    of the movie.
A6: select name, title
    from Movie join (select R1.rID, R1.mID
                    from Rating R1 join Rating R2
                    where (R1.rID = R2.rID) and (R1.mID = R2.mID) and (R2.ratingDate > R1.ratingDate)
                           and (R2.stars > R1.stars))
                    using (mID)
               join Reviewer using (rID);

Q7: For each movie that has at least one rating, find the highest number of
    stars that movie received. Return the movie title and number of stars. Sort by
    movie title. 
A7: select title, maxstars
    from Movie join (select mID, max(stars) as maxstars 
                     from Rating 
                     group by mID) using (mID)
    order by title;

Q8: For each movie, return the title and the 'rating spread', that is, the
    difference between highest and lowest ratings given to that movie. Sort by
    rating spread from highest to lowest, then by movie title. 
A8: select title, mx-mn as spread
    from
    (select mID, min(stars) as mn
    from Rating 
    group by mID) 
    join 
    (select mID, max(stars) as mx
    from Rating 
    group by mID) using(mID)
    join Movie using(mID)
    order by spread desc, title;

Q9: Find the difference between the average rating of movies released before
    1980 and the average rating of movies released after 1980. (Make sure to
    calculate the average rating for each movie, then the average of those
    averages for movies before 1980 and movies after. Don't just calculate the
    overall average rating before and after 1980.) 
A9: select abs(avg_before_1980 - avg_after_1980)
    from (select avg(avg_movie) as avg_before_1980
        from (select mID, year, avg(stars) as avg_movie
             from Rating join Movie using(mID)
             where (year < 1980)
             group by mID)), 
             (select avg(avg_movie) as avg_after_1980
        from (select mID, year, avg(stars) as avg_movie
             from Rating join Movie using(mID)
             where (year >= 1980) 
             group by mID));
